Hey guys so in this lecture we are going to focus on being able to draw straight lines.
And that means we can make geometric patterns like this one in front of us here if we wanted to as well
as just an ordinary straight line too.
Okay so we're back over in game.
And this is going to be a really straightforward one to start you off in Section 2.
Let's go ahead and create a new file and go file new and the width of our image in the height.
Make sure you got it set to 32 and 32.
That's going to be our dimensions of the canvas and the image that we're going to be working with during
this section.
Now I have clocked in the corner of my eye that the background colour is currently black so when I click
okay it will be black unless I go to Advanced Options.
And then we have some more options.
So we're going to fill with the background colour foreground colour white or transparency.
So those will come up again later on when we're talking about layers.
But in this particular case I I actually want to start with a black background.
Why not let's be a little bit different.
Let's zoom into that.
I'm going to use control in the mouse wheel to zoom in.
If you've got a touch capable screen you can touch and pinch to zoom and you can do the same on a track
pad as we go in.
And of course the good old favourite control shift in J to fill the workspace with the image.
Now let's go ahead and imagine this was a blackboard.
We want to create a straight line.
Now the way to do this is a little nuanced.
It's pretty straightforward.
But there is a certain order you need to do things in.
The first thing you need to do is place your starting pixel before you do anything else.
Now I've got the pencil tool selected and the foreground colour is white.
So let's go ahead.
Click.
Now we can press the shift key and then a line will appear between this starting pixel.
And wherever we choose the ending pixel to be.
So if I can put a straight line just there.
Now another thing you can do when you're actually placing that straight line is change it by 15 degree
increments by default by a once again starting.
If I just hold down Shift again it'll go from the end point if I want to start again from this location
where we started the other one from.
I'm going to have to click first then hold down Shift and then we can find where the end point that
we want.
Now if I hold down control after I've done that you'll notice that that line skips in 15 degree increments
all the way around a 360 degree arc so I can say that this is going to be 45 degrees.
And isn't that a lot quicker than going.
One two three four.
When you get the point I'm sure.
And then from here I can do control shift sorry I'm in control and then line up with that we can start
building things up very quickly.
Now when we were at eight by eight it didn't really matter is very quick to fill up.
Now if we've got a thousand and twenty four pixels available to us rather than 64 so there's a huge
amount more we can do this space.
And of course I can now join this pixel at the top up by hoenn down shift and clicking down there.
Now this is a great tool and it works with most of the available tools so when we start using the eraser
the airbrush the paint brush etc etc..
You can use these with this technique as well so it's not just drawing straight lines because you can
use it for straight erasing too.
And of course that leads us nicely on to earth challenge for you guys.
So start with a 32 by 30 to canvas create a geometric pattern and I'll show you a couple of examples
in a moment and export your work at 64 by 64 and share.
Take care not to overwrite your work you were only doing the onesie might want to say save your work
scale it exports it and clothes.
And here are a couple examples using straight line tool that I have quickly knocked up.
Quite cool eh.
Let's see what you guys can do.
Pause a video now and give it a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and create a geometric pattern.
Okay let's go ahead now and do this challenge so I want a geometric shape I'm not quite sure what I'm
going to go for yet.
Now remember because this is 32 by 32.
We have more space.
But there is no centerpointe horizontally or vertically.
Of course we can do a slight offset to solve that and effectively only draw over thirty one of the pixels.
If we wanted that is an option.
So here we have this sort of triangle thing that we've got going on here.
I'm not interested in that.
I'm going to go and undo those lines using control and Z because it's available to me.
There we go.
And let's go ahead and make something funky.
I'm going to go from one corner to another and then from this corner to that and again it's is entirely
up to you how you decide to do this and then you go from there to here then from here to here is starting
to look more like a flag that's going to hold down control to make sure that's locked at 45 degrees
which is which is great.
And what it are.
But this one was an ad down.
So let's go back again.
This is the advantage of that control.
I wouldn't have mucked that up if I I'd known.
So that's that dumb.
Now I need to align these Some are going to click here and go all the way down.
This is another great use of this tool but I'm not going to click to make a straight line down.
That was it.
I'll just use it for alignment and now I'm going to click.
And use that to make the rest of my geometry.
So I'm starting to like what's going on here.
I'm going to continue play with my geometry for a bit and I'll see you guys back in a few moments.
Okay.
Here we go.
I'm just finishing off my geometric shape.
That's what I'm doing at the moment.
This is actually making my eyes go funny.
It's really weird as I am scanning across it.
I've created a kind of an optical illusion it looks like the stairs or the zigzags are oscillating so
I can't focus on that any more.
How did you guys get on.
What did you come up with for your geometric pattern.
Please share your work in the discussions and I will see you guys in the next lecture.